\#  For more details on the layout of this page and how to process it
\#  to create PDF and HTML, see the comment header for bfast.1
\#
\#
\# .TP
\# \fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR=\fIPATTERN\fR
\# do not list implied entries matching shell PATTERN
\#
\" Turn off justification and hyphenation
.na
.hy 0
.TH bcommand 1 "Jul 01, 2008" "version 0.1.1" "UCLA bfast"
.SH NAME
bcommand \- creates and parses .ini a file to run the bfast system.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.fam C
.nf
bcommand
	[\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] 	[\fB\-\-iniFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR]
	[\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] 	[\fB\-\-outputFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR]
.fi
.fam
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bcommand
is the command programs in the bfast system.
.
.P
Documentation for 
.B bcommand
is not yet complete.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-iniFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR
Specifies the .ini file name.
The .ini file will specify all options, including command line options and necessary input files.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-outputFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR
Specifies the file to which a sample .ini file will be written.
.
.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Please see the
.BR bfast (1) 
manpage.
.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Nils Homer <nhomer@cs.ucla.edu.org>
.br
Barry Merriman <barrym@ucla.edu>
.br
Stanley F. Nelson <snelson@ucla.edu>
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.BR bfast "(1), "
.BR bpreprocess "(1), "
.BR bmatches "(1), "
.BR balign "(1), "
.BR bpostprocess "(1)."
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
bfast is copyright 2008 by The University of California - Los
Angeles.  All rights reserved.  This License is limited to, and you
may use the Software solely for, your own internal and non-commercial
use for academic and research purposes.  Without limiting the foregoing,
you may not use the Software as part of, or in any way in connection
with the production, marketing, sale or support of any commercial
product or service.  For commercial use, please contact
nhomer@cs.ucla.edu.org.  By installing this Software you are agreeing to
the terms of the LICENSE file distributed with this software.
.
.P
In any work or product derived from the use of this Software, proper
attribution of the authors as the source of the software or data must
be made.  The following URL should be cited:
.
.P
.I <insert address here>
