\#  This page is is written in groff however many of the control
\#  commands (.TH, .SH, .SS etc) are taken from the "man" macro package
\#  The man pages for roff and groff are of minimal use.  The primary
\#  information source for the groff control commands and macros is the
\#  "info groff" pages.  I have no idea what you're going to do for
\#  groff documentation if you're not using some flavour of unix.
\#
\#  Aide memoire for groff:
\#    .XX[X*]   - "request" control command for groff or macro package 
\#                convention - lower case for groff, upper case for macros
\#    \$n, \$(nn, \$[nnn] - retrieve argument by number from macro call
\#    \XX[X*]   - "escape" control command for inline use
\#    .\"       - deprecated comment line via "undefined request"
\#    \#        - comment line
\#    .ig .END  - ignore all text between tags, block level commenting
\#    .nf .fi   - don't screw with text - verbatim spacing kept
\#
\#  Aide memoire for navigating "info":
\#    space     - forward a page (will move on to next node)
\#    backspace - backward a page (will go back to previous node)
\#    tab       - skip cursor to next "link" in node document
\#    return    - follow "link" cursor is sitting on
\#    arrows    - move cursor left, right, up, down within page
\#    b         - go to top of current node document
\#    u         - up one level of nodes
\#    n         - next node in current chain
\#    p         - previous node in current chain
\#    q         - quit info system
\#
\#  Converting this document into output formats:
\#    man page:    groff -man -Tascii blatter.1
\#    postscript:  groff -man -Tps blatter.1
\#    HTML:        groff -man -Thtml blatter.1
\#
\#  Turn off justification and hyphenation
.na
.hy 0
.TH blatter 1 "Sep 01, 2008" "version 0.1.1" "ULCA Blatter"
.SH NAME
blatter \- Align sequences to a reference genome.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.fam C
.nf 
bpreprocess [\fBoptions\fR]
bmatches [\fBoptions\fR]
balign [\fBoptions\fR]
.fi
.fam
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
Blatter is a software package that provides alignment tools.
.
.P
New Paragraph.
.
.P
The Blatter system consists of three executable programs:
.BR bpreprocess "," 
.BR bmatches "," 
and
.BR bpalign "." 
.
.P
.
.
.SS Dependencies
.TP
.B Dependency Header
Dependency explanation.
.
.SH INSTALLATION
.P
Installation instructions should go here.
.
.SH FILE FORMATS
.
.P
File format explanations should go here.
.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
.TP
.B Compiler limitations
The target compilation environment is gcc and a number of gcc-specific 
features are used including the argp commandline argument processing 
system so Blatter may not compile on non-gcc C/C++ compilers.
.
.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Nils Homer <nhomer@cs.ucla.edu>
.br
Barry Merriman <barrym@ucla.edu>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
.BR bpreprocess "(1), " 
.BR bmatches "(1), "
.BR balign "(1) "
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Blatter is copyright 2007 by The University of California - Los 
Angeles.  All rights reserved.  This License is limited to, and you
may use the Software solely for, your own internal and non-commercial
use for academic and research purposes.  Without limiting the foregoing,
you may not use the Software as part of, or in any way in connection
with the production, marketing, sale or support of any commercial
product or service.  For commercial use, please contact
licensing@tgen.org.  By installing this Software you are agreeing to
the terms of the LICENSE file distributed with this software.
.
.P
In any work or product derived from the use of this Software, proper
attribution of the authors as the source of the software or data must
be made.  The following URL should be cited:
.
.P
.I <insert address here>
