\#  For more details on the layout of this page and how to process it
\#  to create PDF and HTML, see the comment header for bfast.1
\#
\#
\# .TP
\# \fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR=\fIPATTERN\fR
\# do not list implied entries matching shell PATTERN
\#
\" Turn off justification and hyphenation
.na
.hy 0
.TH bpostprocess 1 "Oct 3, 2008" "version 0.1.4" "UCLA bfast"
.SH NAME
bpostprocess \- converts alignment files to the user-specified format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.fam C
.nf
bpostprocess
	[\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] 	[\fB\-\-alignFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR]
	[\fB\-2\fR]			[\fB\-\-pairedEnd\fR]
	[\fB\-a\fR \fIINTEGER\fR]	[\fB\-\-algorithmReads=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-A\fR \fIINTEGER\fR]	[\fB\-\-algorithmReadsPaired=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-C\fR]			[\fB\-\-contigAbPaired\fR]
	[\fB\-I\fR]			[\fB\-\-inversionsPaired\fR]
	[\fB\-s\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-startContig=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-S\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-startPos=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-e\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-endContig=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-E\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-endPos=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-m\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-minScoreReads=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-M\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-minScoreReadsPaired=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-X\fR \fIINTEGER\fR]	[\fB\-\-minDistancePaired=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-Y\fR \fIINTEGER\fR]	[\fB\-\-maxDistancePaired=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-Z\fR \fIINTEGER\fR]	[\fB\-\-meanDistancePaired=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-o\fR \fISTRING\fR] 	[\fB\-\-outputID=\fISTRING\fR]
	[\fB\-d\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR] [\fB\-\-outputDir=\fIDIRECTORY\fR]
	[\fB\-O\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-outputFormat=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-t\fR] 		[\fB\-\-timing\fR]
	[\fB\-p\fR] 		[\fB\-\-Parameters\fR]
	[\fB\-h\fR] 		[\fB\-\-Help\fR]
.fi
.fam
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bpostprocess
is the fourth of four programs in the bfast system.
.
.P 
Documentation for 
.B bpostprocess
is not yet complete.
Other relevant options are specified below.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-alignFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR
Specifies the input file from the balign program.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-2\fR, \fB\-\-pairedEnd\fR
Specifies that paired end data is to be expected.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-a\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-algorithmReads=\fIINTEGER\fR
This specifies the algorithm to choose the alignment for each single-end read after filtering.
The option \fB\-\-a 0\fR specifies that no filtering will occur.
The option \fB\-\-a 1\fR specifies that all alignments that pass the filters will be outputted.
The option \fB\-\-a 2\fR outputs only reads that have been aligned uniquely. 
The option \fB\-\-a 3\fR chooses the alignment with the best score for each read.
If multiple alignments have the same best score, the read is not reported.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-A\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-algorithmReadsPaired=\fIINTEGER\fR
This specifies the algorithm to choose the alignment for each paired-end reads after filtering.
The option \fB\-\-A 0\fR specifies that no filtering will occur.
The option \fB\-\-A 1\fR specifies that all alignments for either end that pass the filters will be outputted.
The option \fB\-\-A 2\fR outputs only paired reads where both ends have been aligned uniquely.
The option \fB\-\-A 3\fR chooses the alignment with the best score when the alignment score from either end is combined.
If multiple alignments have the same best score, an alignment is not reported.
The option \fB\-\-A 4\fR chooses pairs of reads that are closest to the mean distance (\fB\-Z\fR) and are the unique pair within that maximum and minimum distance (\fB\-X\fR and \fB\-Y\fR).
The option \fB\-\-A 5\fR chooses pairs of reads that are closest to the mean distance (\fB-Z\fR) and have the best score.
If multiple alignments have the same best score, an alignment is not reported.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-contigAbPaired\fR
Specifies to output separately those paired reads that do not fall within the specified distance (options \fB-X\fR and \fB-Y\fR) but are on the same strand.
This only works with paired end specified (\fB-2\fR).
.
.TP 4
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-inversionsPaired\fR
Specifies to output separately those paired reads that do not fall within the specified distance (options \fB-X\fR and \fB-Y\fR) but are on the opposite strand.
This only works with paired end specified (\fB-2\fR).
.
.TP 4
\fB\-s\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-startContig=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the start contig for filtering.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-S\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-startPos=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the end position for filtering.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-e\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-endContig=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the end contig for filtering.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-E\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-endPos=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the end postion for filtering.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-m\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-minScoreReads=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the minimum score to consider for single-end reads.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-M\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-minScoreReadsPaired=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the minimum score to consider for the combination of the two paired reads.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-X\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-minDistancePaired=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the minimum allowable distance between the paired end for filtering.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-Y\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-maxDistancePaired=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the maximum allowable distance between the paired ends for filtering.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-Z\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-meanDistancePaired=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the mean distance between the paired ends (for use with \fB\-A 2\fR).
.
.TP 4
\fB\-o\fR \fISTRING\fR, \fB\-\-outputID=\fISTRING\fR
Specifies the ID tag to identify the output files.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-d\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR, \fB\-\-outputDir=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
Specifies the output directory for the output files.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-O\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-outputFormat=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the output format 0: BAF 1: MAF.
BAF is the bfast aligned file format and MAF is the multiple alignment format.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timing\fR
Specifies to output timing information.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-Parameters\fR
Print program parameters.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-Help\fR
Prints the help message.
Print out a help screen showing the short-form descriptions 
of each command line option.
.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Please see the
.BR bfast (1) 
manpage.
.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Nils Homer <nhomer@cs.ucla.edu.org>
.br
Barry Merriman <barrym@ucla.edu>
.br
Stanley F. Nelson <snelson@ucla.edu>
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.BR bfast "(1), "
.BR bpreprocess "(1), "
.BR bmatches "(1), "
.BR balign "(1),"
.BR butil "(1)."
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
bfast is copyright 2008 by The University of California - Los
Angeles.  All rights reserved.  This License is limited to, and you
may use the Software solely for, your own internal and non-commercial
use for academic and research purposes.  Without limiting the foregoing,
you may not use the Software as part of, or in any way in connection
with the production, marketing, sale or support of any commercial
product or service.  For commercial use, please contact
snelson@ucla.edu.  By installing this Software you are agreeing to
the terms of the LICENSE file distributed with this software.
.
.P
In any work or product derived from the use of this Software, proper
attribution of the authors as the source of the software or data must
be made.  Please reference the original BFAST paper PMID<to be published>.
In addition, the following URL should be cited:
.
.P
.I <http://genome.ucla.edu/bfast>
