\#  For more details on the layout of this page and how to process it
\#  to create PDF and HTML, see the comment header for bfast.1
\#
\#
\# .TP
\# \fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR=\fIPATTERN\fR
\# do not list implied entries matching shell PATTERN
\#
\" Turn off justification and hyphenation
.na
.hy 0
.TH bpreprocess 1 "Sept 30, 2008" "version 0.1.3" "UCLA bfast"
.SH NAME
bpreprocess \- pre-computes suitable indexes and genomes that can be re-used in subsequent alignment runs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.fam C
.nf
bpreprocess
	[\fB\-r\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] 	[\fB\-\-rgFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR]
	[\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] 	[\fB\-\-indexLayoutFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR]
	[\fB\-a\fR \fIINTEGER\fR]	[\fB\-\-algorithm\=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-A\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-space=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-s\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-startContig=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-S\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-startPos=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-e\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-endContig=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-E\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-endPos=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-x\fR \fIFILENAME\fR]	[\fB\-\-exonsFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR]
	[\fB\-R\fR]			[\fB\-\-repeatMasker\fR]
	[\fB\-n\fR \fIINTEGER\fR] 	[\fB\-\-numThreads=\fIINTEGER\fR]
	[\fB\-o\fR \fISTRING\fR] 	[\fB\-\-outputID=\fISTRING\fR]
	[\fB\-d\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR] [\fB\-\-outputDir=\fIDIRECTORY\fR]
	[\fB\-T\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR]	[\fB\-\-tmpDir=\fIDIRECTORY\fR]
	[\fB\-t\fR] 		[\fB\-\-timing\fR]
	[\fB\-p\fR] 		[\fB\-\-Parameters\fR]
	[\fB\-h\fR] 		[\fB\-\-Help\fR]
.fi
.fam
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bpreprocess
is the first of four programs in the bfast system.
.
.P
There are two types of output files generated by this program.
The first type is a binary format for the reference genome.
The second type is an index used in subsequent searches by
\fBbmatches\fR.
.
.P
The first step is to convert the reference sequence to bfast binary format.
This is essential for fast loading of the reference genome and is accomplished by using option \fB\-a 0\fR.
The \fB\-r\fR option should specify a file that is in FASTA format.
The reference sequence can be one contigous sequence, a composition of chromosomes, exon sequence, or a large number of small contigs.
For more information on this file format please see 
.BR bfast(1) "."
.
.P
To generate an index (\fB\-a 1\fR), the reference sequence must be given (see \fB\-r\fR) in bfast binary format.
Multiple indexes may generated in a batch-mode by specifying multiple layouts in the file \fB-i\fR (for the file format please see
.BR bfast(1) "."
The index does not have to range over the reference sequence and can be narrowed to a range be using options \fB\-s\fR, \fB\-S\fR, \fB\-e\fR and \fB\-E\fR to specify start contig and position as well as end contig and position for the range.
If you are using a multi-core and/or a multi-processor machine, it is beneficial to specify the number of threads (see \fB\-n\fR) to match the number of independent processing units as to speed up the generating time.
The number of threads must be a power of two only for 
.BR bpreprocess "."
The indexes are stored in binary format to reduce disk space as well as speed up subsequent loading time.
To ignore lower case bases, which correspond to RepeatMasker sequence, use the \fB\-R\fR option.
.
Other relevant options are specified below.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-rgFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR
The file specified contains the reference genome.
If \fB\-a 0\fR is used, then the file name should contain the reference genome FASTA file.
If \fB\-a 1\fR is used, then the file name should contain the bfast binary reference genome file.
For more information on the format of the former file, please see
.BR bfast(1) "."
.
.TP 4
\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-indexLayoutFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR
The file specified will contain the layout for each index that you wish to generate.
For more information on the format of this file, please see
.BR bfast(1) "."
.
.TP 4
\fB\-a\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-algorithm=\fIINTEGER\fR
This specifies what should be pre-computed.
If \fB\-a 0\fR is given, binary files for the reference genome will be created.
If \fB\-a 1\fR is given, index(es) in binary format will be created according to the layouts (\fB\-i\fR) given.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-space\fR
Specifies the encoding space of the alphabet.
\fB\-A 0\fR corresponds to NT (nucleotide) space and \fB\-A 1\fR corresponds to color space.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-s\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-startContig=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the beginning contig range to consider when building the indexes.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-S\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-startPos=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the beginning position range to consider when building the indexes.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-e\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-endContig=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the end contig range to consider when building the indexes.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-E\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-endPos=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the end position range to consider when building the indexes.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-x\fR \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-exonsFileName=\fIFILENAME\fR
Specifies the file name that specifies the exon-like ranges to include in the index.
For more information on the format of the former file, please see
.BR bfast(1) "."
.
.TP 4
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-RepeatMasker\fR
Ignores lower case bases when creating the indexes (\fB\-a 0\fR).
This typically corresponds to RepeatMasker sequence.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-n\fR \fIINTEGER\fR, \fB\-\-numThreads=\fIINTEGER\fR
Specifies the number of threads to create for use with \fB\-a 1\fB.
The number of threads must be a power of two.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-o\fR \fISTRING\fR, \fB\-\-outputID=\fISTRING\fR
Specifies a string to include when naming the output files.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-d\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR, \fB\-\-outputDir=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
Specifies the directory in which to output.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-T\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR, \fB\-\-tmpDir=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
Specifies the directory in which to store temporary files.
If no option is given, this is defaulted to the output directory (\fB\-d\fR).
.
.TP 4
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timing\fR
Output timing information for the execution of the program.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-Parameters\fR
Prints the program parameters but does not execute.
.
.TP 4
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-Help\fR
Prints the help message.
.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Please see the
.BR bfast (1)
manpage.
.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Nils Homer <nhomer@cs.ucla.edu.org>
.br
Barry Merriman <barrym@ucla.edu>
.br
Stanley F. Nelson <snelson@ucla.edu>
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.BR bfast "(1), "
.BR bmatches "(1), "
.BR balign "(1), "
.BR bpostprocess "(1),"
.BR butil "(1)."
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
bfast is copyright 2008 by The University of California - Los
Angeles.  All rights reserved.  This License is limited to, and you
may use the Software solely for, your own internal and non-commercial
use for academic and research purposes.  Without limiting the foregoing,
you may not use the Software as part of, or in any way in connection
with the production, marketing, sale or support of any commercial
product or service.  For commercial use, please contact
snelson@ucla.edu.  By installing this Software you are agreeing to
the terms of the LICENSE file distributed with this software.
.
.P
In any work or product derived from the use of this Software, proper
attribution of the authors as the source of the software or data must
be made.  
Please reference the original BFAST paper PMID<to be published>.
In addition, the following URL should be cited:
.
.P
.I <http://genome.ucla.edu/bfast>
