\#  For more details on the layout of this page and how to process it
\#  to create PDF and HTML, see the comment header for bfast.1
\#
\#
\# .TP
\# \fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR=\fIPATTERN\fR
\# do not list implied entries matching shell PATTERN
\#
\" Turn off justification and hyphenation
.na
.hy 0
.TH butil 1 "Jul 01, 2008" "version 0.1.1" "UCLA bfast"
.SH NAME
butil \- utilities for bfast (not supported)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.fam C
.nf
.
bfixhash
	<bfast reference genome file>
	<bfast index file>
	<new hash width>

bheader
	<bfast index file>

bindexdist
	<bfast reference genome file>
	<bfast index file name>
	<number of mismatches>
	<output directory>
	<output id>
	<tmp file directory>
	<number of threads>

bindexhist
	<bfast reference genome file name>
	<bfast index file name>
	<number of mismatches for histogram>
	<number of threads>

bmafconvert
	<bfast maf file name>
	<maximum number of entries>
	<tmp file directory

bmfconvert
	<bfast matches file name>
	<input type: 0-text 1-binary>
	<0-single-end 1-paired end>

bpairedenddist
	<bfast matches file name>
	<binary Input: 0-text 1-binary>

brepeat
	<bfast reference genome file>
	<minimum unit length>
	<maximum unit length>
	<minimum total repeat length>

btestindexes
	-a	INT	algorithm
			0: read from file
			1: brute-force search all indexes
			2: sample indexes and events
	-f	STRING	input file name (for -a 0)
	-r	INT	read length (for all) 
	-l	INT	index length (for -a 1 and -a 2)
	-n	INT	number of indexes in a set of indexes (for -a 1 and -a 2)
	-s	INT	number of indexes to sample (for -a 2)
	-S	INT	number of events to sample (for -a 2)
	-G	NULL	uses a greedy approach (for -a 2)
	-m	INT	minimum number of mismatches
	-M	INT	maximum number of mismatches
	-i	INT	minimum insertion length
	-I	INT	maximum insertion length
	-e	INT	number of errors
	-p	NULL	prints the program parameters
	-h	NULL	prints this message
.fi
.fam
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B butil 
is a folder containing utilities that were developed for personal use to test, debug, and compliment the bfast program and its accompanying publication.
They are included in this distribution to aid in using bfast and to give examples of other uses for the indexes built and data generated by bfast.
There is no support or warranty for these utilities.
If options are not specified in the correct order, data may be overwritten, and crashes will certainly occur.
Please use at your own risk and consult the source code if problems arise.
If you find one of these utilities incredibly useful, please contact the authors/developers as to recommend a utility be supported.
.
.P
.B bfixhash
regenerates the hash lookup table for an index given a new hash width.
.
.P
.B bheader
prints the header of a bfast index file; the header completely defines the index.
.
.P
.B bindexdist
prints each unique read from the genome and the number of times it occurs, where the genome is contained in the bfast index file.
.
.P 
.B bindexhist
prints a histogram that counts the number of k-mers in the genome that occur X number of times.  
The k-mer chosen comes from the layout of the index.
.
.P 
.B bmafconvert
converts a bfast .maf file to bfast .bed and .wig files.  
The generated files do not conform with USCS standards but are nonetheless more verbose.
.
.P
.B bmfconvert
converts a bmatches file from binary to plaintext or vice versa.
.
.P
.B bpairedenddist
prints the distribution of the distance between paired-end reads using reads that have both ends matching only one location on the same strand.
.
.P
.B brepeat
finds all contiguous repeats in the genome specified by the index that fall within the specified unit length range and minimum contiguous length.
.
.P
.B btestindexes
is a utility that tests, searches for, and compares layouts for indexes against certain events, such as errors, mismatches and insertions.
.
.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Please see the
.BR bfast (1) 
manpage.
.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Nils Homer <nhomer@cs.ucla.edu.org>
.br
Barry Merriman <barrym@ucla.edu>
.br
Stanley F. Nelson <snelson@ucla.edu>
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.BR bfast "(1), "
.BR bpreprocess "(1), "
.BR bmatches "(1), "
.BR balign "(1), "
.BR bpostprocess "(1)."
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
bfast is copyright 2008 by The University of California - Los
Angeles.  All rights reserved.  This License is limited to, and you
may use the Software solely for, your own internal and non-commercial
use for academic and research purposes.  Without limiting the foregoing,
you may not use the Software as part of, or in any way in connection
with the production, marketing, sale or support of any commercial
product or service.  For commercial use, please contact
nhomer@cs.ucla.edu.org.  By installing this Software you are agreeing to
the terms of the LICENSE file distributed with this software.
.
.P
In any work or product derived from the use of this Software, proper
attribution of the authors as the source of the software or data must
be made.  Please reference the original BFAST paper PMID<to be published>.
In addition, the following URL should be cited:
.
.P
.I <http://genome.ucla.edu/bfast>
